# KRvK-solver User Documentation
## What is KRvK-solver
KRvK-solver is a program, that plays king and rook, which are the white pieces, in a **K**ing and **R**ook **V**ersus **K**ing chess position while the user plays the opposing black pieces (or, in this situation, a piece).
## UI and Controlls
The user can start the program by calling the ```main``` function. After calling this function, the player is prompted to enter the individual pieces' positions. This has to be done in the format ```(x,y)```, where x and y are of type Int and are between 1 and 8. If the user enters an invalid input, they have to call the function again.
After successfully calling the function and entering a starting position, the position will be printed into the terminal. This position is shown as an 8x8 grid made of dots of which each represents a square on a chess board, and where the black king is represented by a "B", white king by a "W" and the white rook by an "R". Since the computer has the first turn, the board after the computers turn will be printed right away. 
Now it's the users' turn. The user is prompted to enter their move. This is done by typing any of the following: "u", "ur", "r", "dr", "d", "dl", "l", "ul". These letters symbolise the directions of movement respectively: "**u**p", "**u**p-**r**ight", "**r**ight", "**d**own-**r**ight", "**d**own", "**d**own-**l**eft", "**l**eft", "**u**p-**l**eft". If the user inputs something else or a move, that is illegal, they are reprompted to enter a move again. After the user makes their turn, the computer and player alternate turns untill the black king is checkmated.
An alternative way, which may be in some cases easier is calling the ```gameLoop :: Board -> IO ()``` function with a valid board. Board is a type defined as ```[Position, Piece]``` where Position is ```(Int,Int)``` and Piece is ```BlackKing```, ```WhiteKing``` or ```WhiteRook```. Note that this is not the intended way to use the program, so some problems may occur, such as playing with an invalid board or not recognizing a checkmate position on the first turn.
The user can also use several predefined boards, which can be called using ```testX``` where X is a number between 1 and 5.